
The touch command is a standard command used in UNIX/Linux operating system which is used to create, change and modify timestamps of a file. 

Basically, there are two different commands to create a file in the Linux system which is as follows:

1)  cat command:   It is used to create the file with content.

2)  touch command: It is used to create a file without any content. The file created using touch command is empty.
                  This command can be used when the user doesn’t have data to store at the time of file creation.
    EX: touch fileName.txt  - creates a file with given name.
	
3)  Nano is a user-friendly, simple and WYSIWYG(What You See Is What You Get) text editor.
     It has an easy GUI(Graphical User Interface) which allows users to interact directly with the text in spite of switching between the modes as in vim editor.
    EX: nano fileName.txt allows you to write desired content into selected file. 				  
    Shortcuts: ctrl+O to save ; ctrl+x to exit;
	
4)  !ec + Enter ;  This will execute latest echo command used and will display the output.(! works as smart suggestion symbol to auto-complete commands)

5)  env + Enter ;  This will show all the environment variables(Global variables) defined in the OS whereas set+ Enter ; This will show all local variables.


Module 1 Assignment

Problem Statement:
You are assigned a task to install a web server, in order to control multiple worker processes
from one master process. After you've done your research you found out that NGINX is the
best suitable option in this scenario. Update the host system and install NGINX. Check the
version installed.

Solution:

1)Nginx, pronounced like “engine-ex”, is an open-source web server that, since its initial success as a web server, is now also used as a reverse proxy, HTTP cache, and load balancer.
2)Some high-profile companies using Nginx include Autodesk, Atlassian, Intuit, T-Mobile, GitLab, DuckDuckGo, Microsoft, IBM, Google, Adobe, Salesforce, VMWare, Xerox etc.
3)Because its roots are in performance optimization under scale, Nginx often outperforms other popular web servers in benchmark tests, especially in situations with static content
  and/or high concurrent requests.

To know how Does Nginx Work?
1) Nginx is built to offer low memory usage and high concurrency. Rather than creating new processes for each web request, Nginx uses an asynchronous, event-driven approach where 
   requests are handled in a single thread.
2) With Nginx, one master process can control multiple worker processes. The master maintains the worker processes, while the workers do the actual processing. 
3) Because Nginx is asynchronous, each request can be executed by the worker concurrently without blocking other requests.

Some common features seen in Nginx include:
Reverse proxy with caching
IPv6
Load balancing
FastCGI support with caching
WebSockets
Handling of static files, index files, and auto-indexing
TLS/SSL with SNI 

To install nginx on CentOS8 we need to follow the below steps:
1)Before any installation, always update the local repository to ensure you are downloading the latest software. Use the command:
	sudo yum update
2)You can inspect the Nginx package before adding it to your system. Request to see the RPM metadata included in every RPM package:
	sudo yum info nginx
3)Next, install Nginx on CentOS 8 with the command:
	sudo yum install nginx
4)Although you have installed Nginx, the service will not start automatically.Start the service by typing:
	sudo systemctl start nginx
5)To enable the service to start running upon boot time use:
	sudo systemctl enable nginx
6)If you check the service status, the output should show you Nginx is active (running):
	sudo systemctl status nginx
7)Stop Nginx using the command:
	sudo systemctl stop nginx
8)Restart Nginx (stop and start the service again) with the command:
	sudo systemctl restart nginx
9)Reload the configuration files without stopping the service:
	sudo systemctl reload nginx
10) To check the version installed :
	nginx -v (nginx version: nginx/1.14.1)
	
Reference Link:https://phoenixnap.com/kb/install-nginx-centos-8#:~:text=1%20Install%20Nginx%20on%20CentOS%208.%20Before%20any,for%20web%20traffic.%204%20Configure%20Nginx.%20You%20